RESTFUL EXAMPLE SPRING HIBERNATE MVC!
===================

This project cover the integration of several Frameworks to create a simple restful service that shows a data about statistics of PISAMATHEMATICS over 20 countries during the last 20 years. The full demo is available on https://iwa-demo.herokuapp.com/

----------
Dependencies
-------------

> **Frameworks and dependencies:**

> - **Spring** It is useful for mapping the views, it allows to create applications in MVC model.
> - **Hibernate** This framework allows connect the Database write in `MySQL`, `Postgress`, `SQL` and implement all methods necessary for establish and easy connections with the DataBase and the Application.
> - **REST-assured** For testting purposes 
> -  **AngularJS** A Javascript Framework for develoment in the client-side very useful and customizable.
> - **AWS** (*Optional)* Amazon Web Services, Create a virtual machine, configure and start a instance with mySQL using remote connection.
> - **Heroku** (*Optional)* Is a platform where I uploaded the project, it accepts to deploy a `.WAR` or `.JAR` package.
> - **Bootstrap** A styling Framework written in `js`. and  `css`
> - **D3** A javascript library for charting

Structure project
-------------
The current project has been developed with Maven in Netbeans, so it creates a basic project with all necessary elements to working in web. I customized some of that project including addtional folder an files that allows to work with Spring and Hibernate.

The final estructure looks like:
```
project
|   README.md
|   pom.xml
|   nb-configuration.xml    
|
?-----src
|   |
|   ?-----main
|   |   |
|   |   ?-----java
|   |   |   |
|   |   |   ?-----Controller
|   |   |   |	 	MathematicsController.java
|   |   |   | 		MathematicsControllerRest.java
|   |   |   |
|   |   |   ?-----Dao
|   |   |   |		MathematicsDAO.java
|   |   |   |		MathematicsDAOImpl.java
|   |   |   |
|   |   |   ?-----Model
|   |   |   |		Mathematics.java
|   |   |   |
|   |   |   ?-----Service
|   |   |   		MathematicsService.java
|   |   |   		MathematicsServiceImpl.java
|   |   |   
|   |   ?-----resources
|   |   |
|   |   |
|   |   ?-----webapp
|   |          spring-servlet.xml 
|   |          web.xml
|   |          |
|   | 	       ?-----WEB-INF
|   |				home.jsp
|   |				form.jsp
|   |				pages/
|   |				pages/assets		
|   |				... plugins etc.
|   |
|   ?-----test
|       |
|       ?-----java
|	      controllerTest.java     
|      
?-----target
         spring2.war
        ... *other files generated by netbeans
```

### TOMCAT or GLASHFISH SERVER
If you want to try a webproject you need to tomcat and then you can deploy the file  `.war` included in the target folder.

### HEROKU
In the case of you can try to heroku app, first of all you need to have an account, the free service offer up to 5 applications, for purposes testing. Then you need to create a application in the herokuapp.com as you want to name, but you need to remeber it for deploy your application. 

1. Install heroku-cli

2 Install deploy plugin heroku-cli

    $ heroku plugins:install heroku-cli-deploy

3 Upload the WAR file and wait until process shows Done

    $ heroku war:deploy recommender-1.0.war --app appName

4 Abrir el sitio de la aplicación web

https://appName.herokuapp.com

### Routes

The example include a CRUD that you can use with the followings URL's

GET all
https://iwa-demo.herokuapp.com/mathematics/get

GET {id}
https://iwa-demo.herokuapp.com/{id}

INSERT 
https://iwa-demo.herokuapp.com/mathematics/insert

DELETE{id}
https://iwa-demo.herokuapp.com/mathematics/delete/{id}

UPDATE
https://iwa-demo.herokuapp.com/mathematics/update/{id}

It works with a Json file like this:

    {
    "id": int,
    "location": String,
    "indicator": String,
    "subject": String,
    "measure": String,
    "frequency": String,
    "times": int,
    "value_m": float
    }

The dataset was obtained from:
https://data.oecd.org/pisa/mathematics-performance-pisa.htm